Add troubleshooting section for cross stack  configuration parameters (#2786)
informalsystems/hermes: guide/src/advanced/troubleshooting/cross_comp_config.md

## Maximum Tx Size
When Hermes relays packets or handshake messages, it will build multi-message Tx-es with up to `max_num_msgs` number of messages or up to a Tx size of `max_tx_size` bytes. The full node accepts only Tx-es with size up to the `max_tx_bytes` parameter in its `config.toml`. If a Tx is too large, the full node rejects them with the following error:

```
2022-10-27T13:59:43.650251Z ERROR ThreadId(18) send_messages_and_wait_commit{chain=ibc-0 tracking_id=ft-transfer}:send_tx_with_account_sequence_retry{chain=ibc-0 account.sequence=159}: gas estimation failed or encountered another unrecoverable error error=RPC error to endpoint http://127.0.0.1:26657/: response error: Internal error: Tx too large. Max size is 500, but got 615 (code: -32603)
ERROR transfer error: failed while submitting the Transfer message to chain ibc-0: RPC error to endpoint http://127.0.0.1:26657/: response error: Internal error: Tx too large. Max size is 500, but got 615 (code: -32603)
```
### Fix
Ensure that the `max_tx_size` parameter configured for Hermes is smaller than the `max_tx_bytes` parameter configured for the full node.

## Allowed Clients

> The SDK chain genesis file contains a list of allowed clients that can be created on a chain. If the chain is configured with `genesis.app_state.ibc.client_genesis.allowed_clients` that doesn't include `07-tendermint`, then the chain will not allow tendermint IBC clients to be created and Hermes cannot open an IBC connections with this chain. When creating a client Hermes will get the following error:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The SDK chain genesis file contains a list of allowed clients that can be created on a chain. If the chain is configured with `genesis.app_state.ibc.client_genesis.allowed_clients` that doesn't include `07-tendermint`, then the chain will not allow tendermint IBC clients to be created and Hermes cannot open an IBC connection with this chain. When attempting to a client in this scenario, Hermes will get the following error:
```

```
2022-10-27T14:48:04.632320Z ERROR ThreadId(35) send_messages_and_wait_commit{chain=ibc-0 tracking_id=create client}:send_tx_with_account_sequence_retry{chain=ibc-0 account.sequence=0}:estimate_gas: failed to simulate tx. propagating error to caller: gRPC call failed with status: status: Unknown, message: "failed to execute message; message index: 0: client state type 07-tendermint is not registered in the allowlist: invalid client type [cosmos/ibc-go/v3@v3.0.0/modules/core/02-client/keeper/client.go:22] With gas wanted: '0' and gas used: '64671' ", details: [], metadata: MetadataMap { headers: {"content-type": "application/grpc", "x-cosmos-block-height": "9"} }
```
### Fix
Ensure that the `genesis.app_state.ibc.client_genesis.allowed_clients` parameter in the chain genesis file includes `07-tendermint`.

## Historical Entries

> Presence of recent consensus states on a chain is required when processing some connection handshake messages (`MsgConnectionOpenTry` and `MsgConnectionOpenAck`) that require proof verification that the counterparty chain has a valid client for this chain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The presence of recent consensus states on a chain is required when processing some connection handshake messages, such as `MsgConnectionOpenTry` and `MsgConnectionOpenAck`. Such message types require proof verification that the counterparty chain has a valid client for this chain.
```

> If the chain is configured with `genesis.app_state.staking.params.historical_entries = 0`, then the chain will not store historical consensus state information and Hermes cannot open IBC connections with this chain. It will report an error message will look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the chain is configured with `genesis.app_state.staking.params.historical_entries = 0`, then the chain will not store historical consensus state information and Hermes cannot open IBC connections with this chain. It will report an error message which looks like this:
```

```
2022-10-27T14:54:51.076598Z ERROR ThreadId(18) send_messages_and_wait_commit{chain=ibc-0 tracking_id=ConnectionOpenAck}:send_tx_with_account_sequence_retry{chain=ibc-0 account.sequence=6}:estimate_gas: failed to simulate tx. propagating error to caller: gRPC call failed with status: status: Unknown, message: "failed to execute message; message index: 1: connection handshake open ack failed: self consensus state not found for height 0-88: no historical info found at height 88: not found [cosmos/ibc-go/v3@v3.0.0/modules/core/02-client/keeper/keeper.go:256] With gas wanted: '0' and gas used: '130807' ", details: [], metadata: MetadataMap { headers: {"content-type": "application/grpc", "x-cosmos-block-height": "90"} }
```

> The chain genesis misconfiguration is caught when health check runs, e.g. `hermes health-check`, `hermes start`. A warning message is printed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The chain genesis misconfiguration is caught when the health check runs, e.g. `hermes health-check`, `hermes start`. A warning message such as the following is printed:
```

```
2022-10-27T15:00:14.583244Z  WARN ThreadId(40) health_check{chain=ibc-0}: Health checkup for chain 'ibc-0' failed
2022-10-27T15:00:14.583308Z  WARN ThreadId(40) health_check{chain=ibc-0}:     Reason: staking module for chain 'ibc-0' does not maintain any historical entries (`historical_entries` staking params is set to 0)
2022-10-27T15:00:14.583343Z  WARN ThreadId(40) health_check{chain=ibc-0}:     Some Hermes features may not work in this mode!
```
### Fix
Ensure that the `genesis.app_state.staking.params.historical_entries` parameter in the chain genesis file is greater than 0. Ideal values are > 100.

## Maximum Block Time
There are two cases where misconfiguration of the maximum block time may cause Hermes to fail. They are described in the following sections.

### Header in the Future
When a client for chain `ref_chain` is created by Hermes on chain `tgt_chain`, its `max_clock_drift` is computed as:
`ref_chain.clock_drift + tgt_chain.clock_drift + tgt_chain.max_block_time`
Hermes may delay a client update with `header` for one block if it determines that sending it immediately would cause the chain to reject the update as being in the future.

> Hermes sends the update if:`header.timestamp <= dst_timestamp + max_clock_drift`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hermes sends the update in the case when `header.timestamp <= dst_timestamp + max_clock_drift`
```

where `dst_timestamp` is the last block time on the destination chain.

> Otherwise it waits for the next block and retries the update. If the check fails again an error is returned.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Otherwise, it waits for the next block and retries the update. If the check fails again, an error is returned:
```

ERROR foreign client error: update header from ibc-1 with height 1-2182 and time Timestamp(2022-10-28T08:42:35.600792Z) is in the future compared with latest header on ibc-0 with height 0-4 and time Timestamp(2022-10-28T08:42:31.09872Z), adjusted with drift 3s
```

### Block Delay not Reached
An IBC packet sent to the channel end on a destination chain with `max_block_delay`, channel using a connection with `delay`, must be received:
- after the time delay: `delay` has elapsed relative to the block time that included the client update with the packet commitment root, and
- after the block delay: `delay / max_block_delay` blocks on the destination chain have been created since the client update with the packet commitment root.

The on-chain packet handler uses `genesis.app_state.ibc.connection_genesis.params.max_expected_time_per_block` (in nanoseconds) when computing the block delay.

> Hermes uses it's config `max_block_delay` to compute the block delay.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hermes uses its config `max_block_delay` to compute the block delay.
```

> If Hermes `max_block_delay > genesis.app_state.ibc.connection_genesis.params.max_expected_time_per_block` then Hermes may send a packet that is received too early on the destination chain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If `max_block_delay > genesis.app_state.ibc.connection_genesis.params.max_expected_time_per_block`, then Hermes may send a packet that is received too early on the destination chain, resulting in an error like the following:
```

```
ERROR link error: link failed with underlying error: gRPC call failed with status: status: Unknown, message: "failed to execute message; message index: 0: receive packet verification failed: couldn't verify counterparty packet commitment: failed packet commitment verification for client (07-tendermint-1): cannot verify packet until height: 0-54, current height: 0-46: packet-specified delay period has not been reached [cosmos/ibc-go/v3@v3.0.0/modules/light-clients/07-tendermint/types/client_state.go:536] With gas wanted: '0' and gas used: '78238' ", details: [], metadata: MetadataMap { headers: {"content-type": "application/grpc", "x-cosmos-block-height": "46"} }
```

### Fix

> To avoid errors for both cases described above

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To avoid errors for both cases described above:
```

- ensure that the `max_block_delay` parameter in the Hermes configuration file is equal to the `max_expected_time_per_block` parameter in the chain genesis file:
```
genesis.app_state.ibc.connection_genesis.params.max_expected_time_per_block
```

> - endure that the genesis max_expected_time_per_block parameter is 2 or 3 times the average block time which can be estimates from the `tendermint.consensus.timeout*` parameters. A good estimation is:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ensure that the genesis `max_expected_time_per_block` parameter is 2 or 3 times the average block time which can be estimates from the `tendermint.consensus.timeout*` parameters. An example of a good estimation is:
```
